# Alaska Asset Verification System (AVS)/Enhanced Verification System (EVS)

## Instructions

The documents in this repository will be posted to the official State of Alaska Procurement location date TBD. All documents contained in this repository are drafts and will be updated based on information gathered through this process, as well as feedback from our Federal Partners


## Background

The Alaska Department of Health and Social Services, Division of Public
Assistance is soliciting proposals from qualified offeror's for a web
hosted subscription service to meet the requirements of Supplemental
Appropriations Act, 2008, Pub. L. No. 110-252; Section 1940 of the
Social Security Act, Alaska Statutes (AS) 47.05.105 and 7 CFR 272.16 for
asset, income, identity and new hire matches. The goals of this project
are to procure a subscription service, supplemented with regularly
scheduled data sump matches, to verify applicants and recipients of
assistance meet the eligibility criteria for Public Assistance programs
quickly and accurately.

Alaska Statutes (AS) 47.05.105 requires the Department of Health and
Social Services, Division of Public Assistance to establish an enhanced
computerized income, asset and identity verification system for the
purposes of verifying eligibility, eliminating duplication of public
assistance payments, and deterring waste and fraud in public assistance
programs administered by the department.

### How to respond

We've made every effort to allow for less burden in what we require from interested vendors.  Although the RFP might seem to be pretty extensive, we're asking for limited written responses and believe we'll learn more about your team's approach and offer as part of your verbal presentation.  As discussed in the RFP, we see this presentation to be free flowing vs. formal so that our technical evaluation team can ask questions based on what they've read or heard from your team.

### Budget

Department of Health and Social Services, Division of Public Assistance,
estimates a maximum budget of $2,948,000 dollars for completion of this
project. Payment for the contract is subject to funds already
appropriated and identified. Proposals priced at more than this amount will be considered non-responsive.  This will be a fixed price contract.

### Contract Term

The term of this contract will be from July 1, 2020 -- June 30, 2021,
plus four (4) annual renewal options, each to be exercised at the sole
discretion of the State.

## Contents

1. [Request for Proposals](1-Request-for-Proposals.md)
2.
